---
layout: post
title: 5 Critical Steps To Make Your Rental Listing Stand Out
published: true
author: "Team Rentobo"
date: 2012-10-11
categories:
- listing syndication
- real estate marketing
- rental listing tips
comments: true
---

As the rental market thrives in the long aftermath of the housing crisis, it can
be tough to shine in a competitive environment. Most of the time, just sticking
to some solid general principles can make the real difference in your listings,
and get the prospective tenants you want to respond to it.

Keeping that in mind, we have put together 5 critical steps you can implement
quickly to maximize the success of your search for tenants.

### A Picture is Worth A Thousand Words

When it comes to photographs, you need to focus on 2 things---clarity and
volume. People are visual. Your photographs can say things about an apartment
that descriptive details simply cannot. Generally, the first thing people do
when they view your listing is notice the photographs. Be sure to provide
photographs that will enable your prospects to make informed decisions when
considering your unit for the new home. 

The benefit to this is efficiency. If prospective tenants have a clearer vision
of your property, it is likely they will be more serious about choosing it.
Therefore, you are saving time for yourself and your prospective tenants by
showing the unit to someone that is truly interested in living there.

### Every Property Is Unique

{% img right /images/45060625-stand-out-from-the-crowd1.jpg %}

Alongside photographs, fully describing your unit in the listing assists the
prospective tenant in making their decision to view the property. This seems
like a very simple concept, but what we've found is that many listings stick to
the same limited format such as beds/baths, whether it's been renovated and not
much else. 

Of course, listing core features is important, but this doesn't make your
listing all that unique. To stand out, a mere mention of one or two additional
character traits about your property can make a prospective tenant more excited.
Claw-foot tubs? Don't leave it out. Old kitchen, newer appliances? Check.
Interesting layout? You get the point.

Remember, an excited prospect will turn in their paperwork more quickly, which
will enable you to rent your unit faster. Listing a few extra details that
distinguish your property will give it a personality that puts your listing
above others. Your prospective tenants will be more likely to want your unique
unit and want to call it home.
<!--more-->
### Every Neighborhood Has Character

The neighborhood in which a property is located can be as critical as the
property itself.  Many prospective tenants have an idea of the neighborhood/s in
which they want to live, but just as many don't. For these people, you have a
real opportunity to tell a story about what to expect if they want to live at
your unit.

Of course, if there are parks, cafes and restaurants nearby these are always
good to mention. But what else? Ask yourself what is interesting within a
half-mile radius of the property. This will assist prospective tenants in
choosing your unit as it will give them information they may not have, and they
will appreciate it. This is a particularly good piece of information for someone
looking to relocate from out of state or abroad. Some examples could include a
historic landmark or museum attraction...or better yet if the nearby park has a
playground or dog area---have fun being creative.

### Connect With Your Market

Aside from budget considerations, certain properties tend to attract people that
other properties may not. Many people are looking for a connection to the place
they will potentially call home. So use your words to connect with them. For
instance, if students tend to gravitate to a listing you have, you may say,
'great for students.' Other examples you may see on listings include words like
'eclectic' or 'elegant.' 

Of course, be sure to follow fair housing laws and always avoid any preference
or discrimination (which is also morally and ethically wrong.) A couple 'tag
words' or 'labels' will do the trick, and the people that respond to your
listing will generally be more excited about it.

### Maximize Your Exposure 

When marketing their listings, most brokers understand that few of the above
mentioned tips will work if your unit is not given maximum exposure. You need to
maximize your property's exposure to prospective tenants. While there are a host
of different rental search sites where you can post your listing, posting on ONE
of them can be insufficient, and posting on MANY of them individually can be
time-consuming.

Fortunately, [Rentobo][] can help you with this dilemma. Our site has a free
feature called listing syndication. When a property owner or broker lists their
property with Rentobo, they can avoid the hassle of individually posting on
multiple sites one by one, and post simultaneously. Many of our users are
already doing this. Besides the obvious time-saving difference, the overwhelming
consensus is that having more exposure leads to more serious and better
qualified leads. 

One thing that is certain about our world, people are always going to need a
place to live in and call home. With a rental market that is truly broad,
competition is always going to be a factor. So do a little work on the front-end
of the process to make the rest of it run more smoothly. Whether you are
searching for your next 1 or 100 tenants, follow these steps and enjoy the
rewards.

[Rentobo][] is committed to being the easiest and most efficient online tool you
will ever use in your search for new tenants. We are constantly adding new
features and looking to improve upon what we offer, so if you'd like to learn
more about Rentobo or create a listing, click here.

*Images Copyright Robert-Murray.com*

  [Rentobo]: http://www.rentobo.com "Rentobo | Rental Property Software"
